## Overview
#### Datasets (Location)
``` Unicode
data
  │ 
  ├─── external: Folder containing results generated using external software
  │     ├── db: Results from database searches (.csv format)
  │     ├── denovo: Results from de novo sequencing (.csv format)
  │     ├── mscluster: Clustering results generated using MS-Cluster (.clust format)
  │     └── xcorr: Cross-correlation calculation results using CometX (.tsv format)
  │
  ├─── interim: Folder for intermediate and final results (.csv format), including feature information
  │
  ├─── processed: Folder containing data generated by NovoRank for feature extraction
  │     ├── denoised_mgf: Spectra data with noise peaks removed (*_remove.mgf format)
  │     └── xcorr_mgf: Spectra data prepared for XCorr calculation (*_xcorr.mgf format)
  │
  └─── raw: Original spectra data (.mgf format)
```

## Dataset Preparation
To use NovoRank, a user MUST ensure that their datasets conform to the NovoRank input standard.  

#### ⦁ De novo search result  

Once you perform de novo search, you MUST convert the result to below form:  

Source File|Scan number|Peptide|Score
---|---|---|---|
Hela_1.mgf|10|HKPSVK|85|

> **Note:**  
> Each column is separated by comma (comma-separated value format (CSV)).  
<br>

#### ⦁ Database search result  

Once you perform database search using the same MS/MS spectra used in the de novo search, you MUST convert the result to the below form:  

Source File|Scan number|GT
---|---|---|
Hela_1.mgf|3|KPVGAAK| 

> **Note:**  
> Each column is separated by comma (comma-separated value format (CSV)).  
<br>

#### ⦁ Post-translational modification notation  

NovoRank assumes the following modifications:  
1. Fixed modification: All Cysteines (C) have Carbamidomethylation.
2. Variable modification: Oxidation on Methionine (M), represented as a lowercase "m".

> **For example**:  
> If the sequence is AM+15.99EENGR, a user MUST convert it to AmEENGR.  

## Essential Data for Using NovoRank
Place the data required for each step in the appropriate locations, referring to the **'Overview'** described above.

### < Step 2 >
- Training & Inference (Common Requirements):
  
1. Both `de novo search` and `MS-clust` results are required.  
2. `Spectra data` in .mgf format with 'SCANS=' information included is required.  
   (See [sample](https://github.com/jangho721/NovoRank/blob/main/data/raw/qExHF01_06119_sample.mgf))  
<br>

- For Training:  
In addition to the common requirements, the `database search` result with reliable PSMs is also required for positive and negative labeling.  

### < Step 4 >
- Training & Inference (Common Requirements):
  
1. `Cross-correlation calculation` results are required.
